[DOCS-1690] Add docs for Restricted Viewer role (#1565)
wandb/docs: content/en/guides/core/registry/configure_registry.md

5. Within the **Member** field, search for the user or team you want to edit permissions for.
6. In the **Registry role** column, click the user's role. 
7. From the dropdown, select the role you want to assign to the user.

## Details about Registry roles

The following sections give more information about Registry roles.

{{% alert %}}
Your [role in a team]({{< ref "/guides/models/app/settings-page/teams.md#team-role-and-permissions" >}}) has no impact or relationship to your role in any registry.
{{% /alert %}}

### Default roles
W&B automatically assigns a default **registry role** to a user or team when they are added to a registry. This role determines what they can do in that registry. 

| Entity                                 | Default registry role<br />(Dedicated Cloud / Self-Managed) | Default registry role<br />(Multi-tenant Cloud) |
|----------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Team                                   | Viewer                                                      | Restricted Viewer                               |

> | User or service account (non admin)    | Viewer                                                      | Restricted Viewer                               |

Reviewer: Ooo thanks for adding Service accounts to this table. But they cannot be Viewers or Restricted viewers. So their default role is `Member`

Author: I added a row for service accounts with a footnote below the table to explain the situation.

Removing a user from a team also removes that user's access to the registry.
{{% /alert %}}

> ### Change the owner

Author: Added the task details for changing the owner

Reviewer: 🙏

A Registry admin can designate any member as a registry's owner, including a **Restricted Viewer** or a **Viewer**. Registry ownership is primarily for accountability purposes and does not confer any additional permissions beyond those granted by the user's assigned role.

To change the owner:
1. Navigate to the Registry at https://wandb.ai/registry/.
2. Select the registry you want to configure.
3. Click the gear icon on the upper right hand corner.
4. Scroll to the **Registry members and roles** section.
5. Hover over the row for a member.
6. Click the **...** action menu at the end of the row, then click **Make owner**.

> ## Configure Registry roles

Author: Moved this up from the bottom so it can be near the other tasks and before the conceptual details.

This section shows how to configure roles for Registry members. For more information about Registry roles, including the cabilities of each role, order of precedence, defaults, and more, see [Details about Registry roles](#details-about-registry-roles).

1. Navigate to the Registry at https://wandb.ai/registry/.
2. Select the registry you want to configure.
3. Click the gear icon on the upper right hand corner.
4. Scroll to the **Registry members and roles** section.
5. Within the **Member** field, search for the user or team you want to edit permissions for.
6. In the **Registry role** column, click the user's role. 
7. From the dropdown, select the role you want to assign to the user.

> ## Details about Registry roles

Author: Pushed this conceptual info downward

> There are two different types of roles in W&B: [Team roles]({{< ref "/guides/models/app/settings-page/teams.md#team-role-and-permissions" >}}) and [Registry roles]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}). Your role in a team has no impact or relationship to your role in any registry.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** There are also project roles, but it's probably best not to mention them here. Instead of specifying that there are 2 types of roles in W&B, I would just mention the last part of this block, that `one's role in a team has no impact/relationship to their role in any registry`.

Author: Done

The following sections give more information about Registry roles.

### Default roles
W&B automatically assigns a default **registry role** to a user or team when they are added to a registry. This role determines what they can do in that registry. 

| Entity | Dedicated Cloud or Self-Managed<br />Default registry role | Multi-tenant Cloud<br />Default registry role |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |

> | Team | Viewer | Restricted Viewer |

Author: PTAL to make sure these details are correct for the SaaS rollout phase

> | Member (non admin) | Viewer | Restricted Viewer |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| User (non org-admin) | Viewer | Restricted Viewer |
```

Since `member` is also a role, i think using it here might be confusing.

Author: Done a little differently from the suggestion

| Org admin | Admin | Admin |

A registry admin can assign or modify roles for users and teams in a registry.
See [Configure user roles in a registry]({{< relref "configure_registry.md#configure-registry-roles" >}}) for more information.

> {{% alert title="Restricted Viewer role availability" %}}

Author: I'll adjust this if we decide to hold the docs until it's self-serve for SaaS

Reviewer: Sorry if this is a noob question - but what you mean by 'self-serve for SaaS'?

Author: Invite-only: We need to enable it for each org (I think this is the current state?) Self-serve: Anyone can turn on Restricted Viewer (self service), or everyone has access to Restricted Viewer (fully rolled out). The important thing is for the reader to know how to get access to the feature at the time that we publish these docs.

Reviewer: Ah, understood - thank you. Yes, right now its invite-only. The docs will probably go out sooner than when the feature is fully rolled out on SaaS because we mean to do roll it out to ~30% of SaaS each week, over 3 weeks.

The **Restricted Viewer** role is currently available only in Multi-Tenant Cloud organizations by invitation only. To request access, or to express interest in the feature on Dedicated Cloud or Self-Managed, [contact support](mailto:support@wandb.ai).

This role provides read-only access to registry artifacts without the ability to create, update, or delete collections, automations, or other registry resources.

**Key differences from Viewer role:**
- Can view artifact metadata and collection details.
- Cannot download artifact files or access file contents.
- Cannot use artifacts with `use_artifact()` in the W&B SDK.
- Cannot add or remove aliases or tags from artifacts.

> - Cannot create, edit, or delete collections, automations, or other registry resources.

Reviewer: 1, 4, and 5 are also disallowed for the `Viewer` role. So i think it might be better to just highlight the main differences:

- Cannot download artifact files or access file contents.
- Cannot use artifacts with `use_artifact()` in the W&B SDK.

Author: Done

{{% /alert %}}

### Role permissions
The following table lists each Registry role, along with the permissions provided by each role:

> | Permission                                                     | Permission Group | Restricted Viewer<br />(Multi-tenant Cloud, by invitation) | Viewer | Member | Admin | 

Author: PTAL at this table, where I add a Restricted Viewer column before Viewer. I also swap out text X for Yes and blank for No, with unicode check character and blank for better legibility.

Reviewer: lgtm, thanks!

> | Permission                                                     | Permission Group | Restricted Viewer<br />(Multi-tenant Cloud, by invitation) | Viewer | Member | Admin | 

Reviewer 2: nit: in a future PR, I'd remove the `(Multi-tenant Cloud, by invitation)` from here.

Author: It will be removed when it is no longer limited in these ways. Thanks for the reminder. :)

Removing a user from a team also removes that user's access to the registry.
{{% /alert %}}

> ### Change the owner

Reviewer 3: The other H3 before this are about team management. Proposing adding "...of a registry" or something similar to distinguish between team management and changing the owner of a registry.

```suggestion
### Change the owner of a registry
```

> A Registry admin can designate any member as a registry's owner, including a **Restricted Viewer** or a **Viewer**. Registry ownership is primarily for accountability purposes and does not confer any additional permissions beyond those granted by the user's assigned role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A registry admin can designate any member as a registry's owner, including a **Restricted Viewer** or a **Viewer**. Registry ownership is primarily for accountability purposes and does not confer any additional permissions beyond those granted by the user's assigned role.
```

Author: Done, also one other instance in the file.

To change the owner:

> 1. Navigate to the Registry at https://wandb.ai/registry/.

Reviewer 3: Confirming specifying product URLs in the docs. (In the past you suggested I remove them).

Author: Done

| Edit allowed types list for a registry                         | Update           |                   |        |   ✓    |   ✓   |
| Edit custom registry name                                      | Update           |                   |        |   ✓    |   ✓   |
| Delete a collection                                            | Delete           |                   |        |   ✓    |   ✓   |
| Delete an automation                                           | Delete           |                   |        |   ✓    |   ✓   |
| Unlink an artifact from a registry                             | Delete           |                   |        |   ✓    |   ✓   |
| Edit accepted artifact types for a registry                    | Admin            |                   |        |        |   ✓   |
| Change registry visibility (Organization or Restricted)        | Admin            |                   |        |        |   ✓   |
| Add users to a registry                                        | Admin            |                   |        |        |   ✓   |
| Assign or change a user's role in a registry                   | Admin            |                   |        |        |   ✓   |

> ### Effective (inherited) Registry role

Reviewer 3: Inherited is easier to understand. Consider just using that term and not "effective".

Author: I actually got confused thinking of it as inherited, which is why I changed it to "effective", but then I didn't want the reader to miss finding the info if they searched for "inherited" so I landed on having both. The way the UI is showing it and the way it ends up working out reads to me like "effective".

A quick differentiation I found is: "An inherited role is a role granted to a user or another role through a parent-child relationship within a role hierarchy, granting the recipient the privileges of the parent role. An effective role (or effective permissions) represents the cumulative set of all permissions a user holds, encompassing both their explicitly assigned roles and all roles inherited from groups, composite roles, or parent roles in a hierarchy"

I will take your advice though because you are more familiar with Registry users and how they think.

Author: Done

> ### Effective (inherited) Registry role

Author: ```suggestion
### Inherited Registry role
```

> When viewing the registry's membership list, the W&B App shows each user's effective registry role next to the role dropdown in their row.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When viewing the registry's membership list, the W&B App shows each user's effective (inherited) registry role next to the role dropdown in their row.
```

Author: Your two suggestions on line 133 are a bit in conflict with each other and I can't figure out what end result you would prefer. Can you take a look?

Author: Merged into the next suggestion.

> When viewing the registry's membership list, the W&B App shows each user's effective registry role next to the role dropdown in their row.

Reviewer 3: Let's distinguish between inherited vs not inherited roles. 

```suggestion
The registry's membership list shows each user's inherited (effective) registry role (in light gray) next to the role dropdown in their row.
```

{{< img src="/images/registry/role_conflict.png" alt="Registry membership list showing the user's effective registry role" >}}

> A user's effective (inherited) role in a particular registry matches their _highest_ role among their role in the organization, the registry, and the team that owns the registry, whether inherited or explicitly assigned. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A user's effective role in a particular registry matches their _highest_ role among their role in the organization, the registry, and the team that owns the registry, whether inherited or explicitly assigned. For example:
```

- A team **Admin** or organization **Admin** with the **Viewer** role in a particular registry owned by the team is effectively an **Admin** of the registry.
- A registry **Viewer** with the **Member** role in the team is effectively a **Member** of the registry.
- A team **Viewer** with the **Member** role in a particular registry is effectively a **Member** of the registry.

### SDK compatibility

{{% alert title="SDK version requirement" %}}

> To use the W&B SDK to access artifacts as a **Restricted Viewer**, you must use W&B SDK version 0.19.9 or higher. Otherwise, SDK commands will result in permission errors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use the W&B SDK to access artifacts as a **Restricted Viewer**, you must use W&B SDK version 0.19.9 or higher. Otherwise, some SDK commands will result in permission errors.
```

{{% /alert %}}

When a **Restricted Viewer** uses the SDK, certain functions are not available or work differently.

> The following functions are not available and result in permission errors:

Reviewer 3: What is listed below are methods, not functions

```suggestion
The following methods are not available and result in permission errors:
```

- [`Run.use_artifact()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/classes/run/#method-runuse_artifact" >}})
- [`Artifact.download()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/classes/artifact/#method-artifactdownload" >}})
- [`Artifact.file()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/classes/artifact/#method-artifactfile" >}})
- [`Artifact.files()`]({{< relref "/ref/python/sdk/classes/artifact/#method-artifactfiles" >}})

> The following functions are limited to artifact metadata:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following methods are limited to artifact metadata:
```

Your role in a team has no impact or relationship to your role in any registry.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Restricted Viewer role availability" %}}

> The **Restricted Viewer** role is currently available only in multi-tenant Cloud organizations. This role provides read-only access to registry content without the ability to create, update, or delete collections, automations, or other registry resources.

Author: Multi-tenant Cloud

**Key differences from Viewer role:**
- Can view artifact metadata and collection details
- **Cannot download artifact files** or access file contents
- **Cannot use artifacts** with `use_artifact()` in SDK
- Cannot add or remove aliases or tags from artifacts
- Cannot create, edit, or delete collections, automations, or other registry resources
{{% /alert %}}

> The proceeding table lists the different roles a user can have and their permissions:

Author: ```suggestion
The following table lists the different roles a user can have and permissions it confers:
```

> | Permission                                                     | Permission Group | Viewer | Restricted Viewer | Member | Admin | 

Author: This table is confusing. Use a checkmark to indicate Yes, and an X to indicate No.

| Team registry role | Individual registry role | Inherited registry role |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | 

> | Viewer | Viewer | Viewer |

Author: PTAL and make sure I've adjusted this correctly

| Viewer | Restricted Viewer | Viewer |
| Member | Viewer | Member |
| Member | Restricted Viewer | Member |
| Admin  | Viewer | Admin  |
| Admin  | Restricted Viewer | Admin  | 

If there is a conflict, W&B displays the highest level of permissions next to the name of the user.

For example, in the proceeding image Alex inherits **Member** role privileges because they are a member of the `smle-reg-team-1` team.

{{< img src="/images/registry/role_conflict.png" alt="Registry role conflict resolution" >}}

### Registry ownership

> Registry admins can assign a **Restricted Viewer** user as the registry's owner. Registry ownership is primarily for accountability purposes and does not confer any additional permissions beyond those granted by the user's assigned role. A Restricted Viewer who is also the registry owner will still have only read-only access to the registry content.

Author: ```suggestion
Any user can be designated as a registry's owner by a Registry admin, including a **Restricted Viewer** or a **Viewer**.  Registry ownership is primarily for accountability purposes and does not confer any additional permissions beyond those granted by the user's assigned role.
```

### SDK compatibility

{{% alert title="SDK version requirement" %}}

> To use the Restricted Viewer role, you must use W&B SDK version 0.19.9 or higher. Older SDK versions will receive permission errors when trying to access artifacts in registries where users have Restricted Viewer roles.

Author: ```suggestion
To use the **Restricted Viewer** role, you must use W&B SDK version 0.19.9 or higher. Older SDK versions will receive permission errors when trying to access artifacts in registries where users have Restricted Viewer roles.
```
Render role names in bold

{{% /alert %}}

> The Restricted Viewer role affects SDK behavior in the following ways:

Author: ```suggestion
When a **Restricted Viewer** uses the SDK, certain functions are not available or work differently.
```

> The Restricted Viewer role affects SDK behavior in the following ways:

Author: Address all of this feedback systematically for the entries in this section. For example, adjust all of the entries that allow for viewing metadata only to align with the feedback in line 149.

> - **`use_artifact()`**: Not available - will throw permission errors

Author: ```suggestion
- **`use_artifact()`**: Not available. Throw permission errors.
```

- **`artifact.download()`**: Not available - will throw permission errors  

> - **`artifact.files()`**: Available but files cannot be downloaded

Author: ```suggestion
- **`artifact.files()`**: The artifact's directory structure and file names can be viewed, but files cannot be downloaded and their contents cannot be viewed.
```

- **`artifact.file()`**: Available but files cannot be downloaded

> - **`artifact.get()`**: Available for metadata access

Author: ```suggestion
- **`artifact.get()`**: Available for viewing artifact metadata only.
```

- **`artifact.get_path()`**: Available for metadata access
- **`artifact.get_entry()`**: Available for metadata access
- **`artifact.json_encode()`**: Available for metadata access
- **`artifact.verify()`**: Available for metadata access

### Cross-registry permissions

A user can have different roles in different registries. For example, a user can be a **Restricted Viewer** in Registry A but a **Viewer** in Registry B. In this case:

- The same artifact linked to both registries will have different access levels

> - In Registry A: Cannot download files or use the artifact

Author: ```suggestion
- In Registry A, the user is a Restricted Viewer and cannot download files or use the artifact.
```

> - In Registry B: Can download files and use the artifact normally

Author: ```suggestion
- In Registry B, the user is a **Viewer** and can download files and use the artifact.
```

> - Access is determined by the context in which the artifact is accessed (which registry collection)

Author: ```suggestion
In other words, access is determined by the registry in which the artifact is accessed.
```

| Team registry role | Individual registry role | Inherited registry role |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | 

> | Viewer | Viewer | Viewer |

Reviewer: Is this table meant to be exhaustive? Based on the existing docs, doesn't seem like that was the intention so lgtm! Else, there are a couple more combinations that are missing here.

Author: I'm not really clear on what this table is trying to show. I guess which takes precedence between your team and individual registry role. So I think it should be something like this (I am guessing at the third column values for the new ones. I am assuming that the highest permission between team and user wins, rather than the lowest. Is that correct?)

```text
| Restricted Viewer | Restricted Viewer | Restricted Viewer
| Restricted Viewer | Viewer                   | Viewer
| Restricted Viewer | Member                | Member
| Restricted Viewer | Admin                    | Admin
| Viewer                   | Restricted Viewer | Viewer
| Viewer                   | Viewer                    | Viewer
| Viewer                   | Member                 | Member
| Viewer                   | Admin                    | Admin
| Member                | Restricted Viewer | Member
| Member                | Viewer                   | Member
| Member                | Member                | Member
| Member                | Admin                    | Member
| Admin                   | Restricted Viewer | Admin
| Admin                   | Viewer                   | Admin
| Admin                   | Member                 | Admin
| Admin                   | Admin                    | Admin
```

Whether that is correct or not, there might be a more efficient way to show this. WDYT?

Reviewer: Yup, you're completely right! And I agree, we could convey this more efficiently. Maybe the table isn't even required TBH.

{{< img src="/images/registry/role_conflict.png" alt="Registry role conflict resolution" >}}

> ### SDK compatibility

Author: PTAL and make sure these details are correct

Reviewer: A couple of corrections:

`artifact.file()` is not available for a restricted viewer
`artifact.files()` is not available for a restricted viewer
I don't think `artifact.json_encode()` needs a special mention; IIRC, it was introduced for a launch-specific feature

Author: Done

Reviewer: Thank you!

{{% alert title="SDK version requirement" %}}
To use the W&B SDK to access artifacts as a **Restricted Viewer**, you must use W&B SDK version 0.19.9 or higher. Otherwise, SDK commands will result in permission errors.
{{% /alert %}}

When a **Restricted Viewer** uses the SDK, certain functions are not available or work differently.

- **`use_artifact()`**: Not available. Results in permission errors.
- **`artifact.download()`**: Not available. Results in permission errors.
- **`artifact.files()`**: Available for viewing artifact directory structure and artifact metadata only.
- **`artifact.file()`**: Available for viewing artifact metadata only.
- **`artifact.get()`**: Available for viewing artifact metadata only.
- **`artifact.get_path()`**: Available for viewing artifact metadata only.
- **`artifact.get_entry()`**: Available for viewing artifact metadata only.
- **`artifact.json_encode()`**: Available for viewing artifact metadata only.

> - **`artifact.verify()`**: Available for viewing artifact metadata only.

Reviewer 3: Some of these are purposely hidden. See the Python SDK docs for which should and should not be exposed: https://docs.wandb.ai/ref/python/sdk/classes/artifact/

Author: After applying Ishita's feedback I verified and all of the remaining ones are referenced in the SDK docs. PTAL and let me know if this is the correct way to refer to these functions.

Reviewer 3: Thanks. Python Classes are capitalized, so each that start with "artifact" need to be like: `Artifact.download()`

Which `use_artifact()` is this referring to, btw? 
https://docs.wandb.ai/ref/python/sdk/classes/run/#method-runuse_artifact
https://docs.wandb.ai/ref/python/public-api/runs/#method-runuse_artifact

Reviewer: This one: https://docs.wandb.ai/ref/python/sdk/classes/run/#method-runuse_artifact

Author: Fixed the formatting and turned each into a link so it is clear which method we mean.

> ### Cross-registry permissions

Author: PTAL and make sure I explained this properly

Reviewer: lgtm
